hey guys it's Brooke with super tutor TV
and today we are going to talk about
three math hacks for the SAT math
section if you haven't already done it I
just want to encourage everybody out
there to subscribe to our Channel all
you have to do is click the subscribe
button it's really awesome go do it and
then the other day I wanna encourage you
to do is head over to our website super
cute achieve econ we have a blog and
lots of other videos and blog posts and
awesome information for you guys even
some free resources we have links to all
the free SAT tests and the free SAT book
from the College Board and all that good
stuff so go receiver to your TV comm
check out those resources subscribe to
our mailing list while you're there and
let's get started with the video so in
terms of map hacks for the SAT what
these are is these are some sort of
backdoor tricks that you can use to
solve problems on the test sometimes
they're going to save you time other
times they're actually going to be way
more time-consuming than the
straightforward way to do the problem
but they're always really great
problem-solving tools because if you get
stuck or you can't see it from another
angle these are going to help you hack
into those problems and still be able to
get to an answer choice and finish the
test and hopefully get a super awesome
score cool so let's get into it my first
hack is to use the answers and I know
this is a tip that a lot of tutors are
probably giving you but I'm going to
show you one way in particular that I
use it on this particular test because
of the nature of this test this test is
a little bit different from the old SAT
and even the a CT in a sense that one
the Mac section only has four answer
choices and a lot of the time those
answer choices have a lot of repetition
going on in them so when you see that
repetition that's a huge opportunity for
speeding up so I'm going to get into a
problem right now what I like to do with
this particular trick is I like to save
time especially on the no calculator
permitted section on there's usually a
couple of questions where I can
basically not necessarily do the problem
all the way through but look at the
answer choices and sort of cheat my way
to a faster endpoint okay so here is one
problem where that's true if y equals x
cubed plus 2x plus 5 and Z equals x
squared plus 7 X plus 1 what is 2y
Z in terms of X as you can see what
we've got going on here is we've got two
equations and then we have what's called
an expression here I call these equation
expression questions so what I'm going
to do here is in the used substitution
I'm going to plug in my Z I'm going to
plug in my Y into this expression so
this was a lot of adding it's just
combining there's some foil but I don't
want to waste time so I'm going to be a
little smart and I'm going to look over
here whenever I'm combining terms
usually the easiest terms to combine are
the first terms and the last term's so
those are what I'm going to look at
first I see that this is unique here and
then these are all the same to see that
repetition and then over here all of
these are distinct except for the 211th
you see that what I'm going to do is I'm
gonna go after let's go after this
called first cuz I think that one's
usually really easy to get is like my no
variable section and so the way I get
that is 2 times 5 is 10 right if I use
the distributive property and then I'm
going to add that 10 to the 1 over here
so that gives me 11 but you see how I'm
not actually combining all my terms I'm
just being lazy and combining my last
term and using process of elimination
so that gets ramp begin beach they know
10 plus 1 is 11 boom and now remember
that first term that first term is
probably going to be pretty easy to
solve out to this is X cubed right this
is x squared huh so this has no X cubes
at all so my only X cubes are just these
over here which is going to be 2 times
that which is 2x cubed okay so I need to
excuse it's C and I'm done boom you see
how I skip to the middle of my foil what
I usually do on these questions when
they put a big star and I put a little
note for myself to double-check it
because I know that I skipped in the
middle terms so then when I get done
with a whole test I'll come back to this
one and then I will foil everything out
and I'll be super careful but in order
to pick up time on this no calculator
section I try to find as many of these
problems as possible where have these
answer choices where there's repetition
and when I see that repetition I can use
that to my advantage to speed up my
process these process of elimination and
kind of like dice through to the answer
cool
so my next math hack is another classic
tutor hack which is make up numbers when
you do not have a new problem or even if
you do know how to do a problem a lot of
times a way to build clarity or a way to
figure out how all those numbers work
together is to make up types of single
numbers and plug those into the
situation so that you can kind of play
with
and know how everything is set up this
works particularly well whenever you
have variables in the answer choice so
here's how this goes the gas mileage for
Peters car is 21 miles per gallon when
the car travels at an average speed of
50 miles per hour okay the car's gas
tank has 17 gallons of gas at the
beginning of a trip if his car travels
an average of 50 miles an hour which of
the following functions models the
number of gallons of gas remaining in
the tank t so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to make up a T I'm going to
pretend that Peter drive let's say for
two hours okay and then it manually
calculate all this stuff out fYI I don't
like to make up one when I'm making up
numbers and their variables an answer
choice because one disappears really
easily and sometimes that disappearing
act means that more than one answer
choices right so I'm going to make up
two if he goes for two hours and he's
going 50 miles an hour that means he's
going to go 100 miles right and if you
try it for a hundred miles and I'm gonna
figure out how much gas to use well if
he was using twenty one miles per gallon
the first 21 miles of a strip he's going
to use one gallon the next twenty one so
we're up to 42 he's going to use two
gallons right the next 21 soar up to
sixty three gallons is going to use 384
he's going to use four so it's a little
over four about how do I get that what
am i doing oh I'm dividing 100 miles by
21 miles per gallon right and I'm
putting 1 over 21 miles per gallon and
that's actually 21 gallon over 21 miles
I can also think of it as remember
whenever we have a unit if I have 21
miles per gallon what that is is 21
miles over one gallon and I can also
think of it as flipped one gallon over
21 miles if I want to in any case what
I'm doing is dividing 100 by 21 we got
100 divided by 21 gallons that I've used
up I'm not going to do the math and that
I'm just going to leave it put and when
you've got ugly stuff here don't solve
it down just leave it put because we're
going to try to go backwards in a second
so to find the number of downs left in
the tank I'm going to take the 17 downs
I'm a subtractive stuff that I've used
right this stuff right here so this is
what I'm looking for this is my answer
that's the amount of gas remaining well
now I'm going to go back and figure out
how the heck did I get a hundred well
100 was this 50 miles per hour times the
T
right this is actually just 50 T so I'm
going to try to piece this out and where
it came from and there it is see this is
50 T that's 100 right there's my 21 and
there's my 17 so my answer is B so
really classic trick but it's super
helpful when you get a confusing
sounding word problem like this and
you've got all these variables in your
choice it's a great problem-solving
technique everybody should know it okay
and finally my third tip a little bit
unique to this test this one's a little
more unique than those last two and that
is the idea of plug in 0 or 1 when in
doubt especially when you have
quadratics or exponential functions ok
so when we get these problems and you
don't quite know what to do with them if
you plug in 0 or 1 it can help you kind
of eliminate answer choices and get down
to what things mean and better
understand things so we're going to take
a look at how it works right here a
biology class at Central High School
predicted that a local population of
animals will double in size over 12
years the population of the beginning of
2014 so in 2014 it was estimated to be
50 animals so if I know this the next
thing I'm going to do is I'm going to
step out 1 generation
so I'm saying plug in 1 or 0 I also with
this exponentially kind of stuff and I
know this is exponential because I'm
experience with this but even if you
don't step forward one generation so if
I add 12 years then that's 2026
and then in 2026 I'm gonna have 100
animals right so the P P represents the
population n years after 2014
so here and actually equals 12.1 but
that's okay then which of the following
equations represents the classes model
of the population over time so I know a
few things here I know when N equals 12
P equals 100 I also know when N equals 0
P equals 50 ok so this is my plug in 0
remember my plug in zero tip so my plug
in zero tip comes down to if I go
nowhere if I start my starting place I
know the population starts at 50 animals
so when N equals 50 0 years from 2014 I
know P equals 50 what this plug in one
or zero enables me to do is it enables
me to get a couple of points that I can
then back solve and plug into the stuff
that I have over here you
process a validation and come up with
the answer so here gonna plug in N
equals zero P equals 50 when N equals
zero here P equals 12 that just goes
away that's not right here when N equals
zero P equals 50 that works here when N
equals zero this two to the zero becomes
1 and that's 50 so that works and then
this works as well because that's in the
exponents to the zero this all becomes
one it goes away and we get 50 so we
only got rid of one answer choice from
the zero but still it can be useful and
on some problems you're going to get rid
of more than one answer and now let's
actually I'm going to go to this n
equals 12
yes it's not plugging in one but it's
one generation which is kind of the same
idea so we're going to say 100 equals 50
plus 12 times 12 no that's not true
because that's 144 now let's look at
this 2 to the 12 n well if n is 12 holy
cow that's true the 144 that is one
ginormous number and I don't know what
it is but it's definitely not just 2 and
then out here D so I know D has to be
right and again I could plug in N equals
1 I can plug in N equals 0 I can plug in
N equals 12 so that's just plug in 0 or
1 or step forward sort of one generation
in these exponential problems you're
gonna be able to wrap your head around
them pretty easily even if you're
getting confused as you how to set it up
I want to reiterate that this is one way
to do problems and these are like
backdoor tricks to do the problem where
they always the fastest way sometimes
they are and sometimes they aren't but
above all what I always like to say is
you want to have more tools in your
toolbox so I want to teach you guys some
unconventional ways to do problems so
that you're just better prepared for
this test and you never feel like
there's nothing you can do to try to
solve something that might seem
complicated or a little hard to crack so
I hope you guys like this video
subscribe to our Channel go check out
all of our social media our Facebook our
Instagram all that fun stuff subscribe
to our mailing list at super junior-t be
calm and I will see all of you guys next
week on super tutor TV in the meantime
watch some more videos and go back on
your SAT bye everybody
[Music]